.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH DATA 1 2000-1月 "splash_id" "splash_id"
.SH NAME
splash_id \- Calculates the SPLASH identifier for the given spectrum data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIsplash_id(\fBspec\fR as any, 
\fBtype\fR as <integer> SpectrumType = [MS], 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Calculates the SPLASH identifier for the given spectrum data.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBspec\fB \fR\- The spectrum data, which can be a single spectrum object, a list, or an array of spectra.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBtype\fB \fR\- The type of spectrum (default is MS).. 
.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- The R environment for error handling.. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A SPLASH ID string or an array/list of SPLASH IDs if input is multiple spectra.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The SPLASH is an unambiguous, database-independent spectral identifier, 
 just as the InChIKey is designed to serve as a unique identifier for 
 chemical structures. It contains separate blocks that define different 
 layers of information, separated by dashes. For example, the full SPLASH 
 of a caffeine mass spectrum above is splash10-0002-0900000000-b112e4e059e1ecf98c5f.
 The first block is the SPLASH identifier, the second and third are 
 summary blocks, and the fourth is the unique hash block.
 
 The SPLASH began As the MoNA (Massbank Of North America) hash, designed To 
 identify duplicate spectra within the database. This idea developed further 
 during the 2015 Metabolomics conference, where the SPLASH collaboration 
 was formed. Currently, the specification has been formalized For mass 
 spectrometry data. Additional specifications For IR, UV And NMR spectrometry
 are planned.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
data
.SH FILES
.PP
mzkit.dll
.PP
