.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH MRMLINEAR 2 2000-Jan "find_untargeted_ionpair" "find_untargeted_ionpair"
.SH NAME
find_untargeted_ionpair \- MRM-Ion Pair Finder is used to automatically and systematically define MRM transitions from untargeted metabolomics data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIfind_untargeted_ionpair(\fBms2\fR as any, 
\fBdiff_MS2MS1\fR as double = 0.05, 
\fBms2_intensity\fR as double = 0.05, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
MRM-Ion Pair Finder is used to automatically and systematically define MRM transitions from untargeted metabolomics data. 
 Our research group first introduced the concept of pseudotargeted metabolomics using the retention time locking 
 GC-MS-selected ions monitoring in 2012. The pseudotargeted metabolomics method was extended to LC-MS in 2013. To define
 ion pairs automatically and systematically, the in-house software “Mul-tiple Reaction Monitoring-Ion Pair Finder (MRM-Ion 
 Pair Finder)” was developed, which made defining of the MRM transitions for untargeted metabolic profiling easier and 
 less time consuming. Recently, MRM-Ion Pair Finder was updated to version 2.0. The new version is more convenient, consumes 
 less time and is also suitable for negative ion mode. And the function of MRM-Ion Pair Finder is also performed in R so 
 that users have more options when using pseudotargeted method.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBms2\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
https://github.com/zhengfj1994/MRM-Ion_Pair_Finder
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
MRMLinear
.SH FILES
.PP
mz_quantify.dll
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBBioNovoGene\fR
