.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH MATH 4 2000-1月 "find_precursor" "find_precursor"
.SH NAME
find_precursor \- find precursor adducts type for a given mass and the corresponding precursor mz
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIfind_precursor(\fBmass\fR as double, 
\fBmz\fR as double, 
\fBlibtype\fR as any = 1, 
\fBda\fR as double = 0.3, 
\fBsafe\fR as boolean = FALSE, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
find precursor adducts type for a given mass and the corresponding precursor mz
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBmass\fB \fR\- the exact mass value. 
.PP
.PP
\fBmz\fB \fR\- the m/z value from the ion, usually be the mz value from the xcms peaktable.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBlibtype\fB \fR\- 
 the ion mode polarity value of the adducts for matches, value could be an integer value [1,-1].
 and also this parameter value could be a set of the precursor adducts type character vector 
 for do the data matches job.
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBda\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
a matched adducts result, for no matched data, a details error message will be returns.
 generally, the result tuple list contains the slot data:
 
 1. precursor_type: the result adducts type that could be used for matches the given mass and mz value
 2. error: the mass error in unit delta dalton between the given mz and the theoretical m/z value that evaluated from the given mass and the matched adducts type.
 3. theoretical: the theoretical m/z value that evaluated from the given mass and the matched adducts type.
 4. ppm: the mass ppm error between the given mz and the theoretical m/z value that evaluated from the given mass and the matched adducts type.
 5. message: usually be the error message.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
math
.SH FILES
.PP
mzkit.dll
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBgg.xie@bionovogene.com\fR
