.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH MATH 4 2000-Jan "spectral_entropy" "spectral_entropy"
.SH NAME
spectral_entropy \- Search spectra with entropy similarity
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIspectral_entropy(\fBx\fR as <generic> LibraryMatrix, 
\fBref\fR as <generic> LibraryMatrix = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBtolerance\fR as any = "da:0.3", 
\fBintocutoff\fR as double = 0.05, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Search spectra with entropy similarity
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBx\fB \fR\- target spectral data that used for calculate the entropy value. 
.PP
.PP
\fBref\fB \fR\- 
 if this parameter is not nothing, then the spectral similarity score will
 be evaluated from this function.
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBtolerance\fB \fR\- 
 the mass tolerance error to make the spectrum data centroid
 
 To calculate spectral entropy, the spectrum need to be centroid first. When you are
 focusing on fragment ion's information, the precursor ion may need to be removed 
 from the spectrum before calculating spectral entropy. If isotope peak exitsted on
 the MS/MS spectrum, the isotope peak should be removed fist as the isotope peak does
 not contain useful information for identifing molecule.
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBintocutoff\fB \fR\- 
 the percentage relative intensity value that used for removes the noise ion fragment peaks
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
Li, Y., Kind, T., Folz, J. et al. Spectral entropy outperforms MS/MS dot product
 similarity for small-molecule compound identification. Nat Methods 18, 1524–1531
 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-021-01331-z
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
math
.SH FILES
.PP
mzkit.dll
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBgg.xie@bionovogene.com\fR
