.\" man page create by R# package system.
.TH MATH 1 2000-1月 "preprocessing" "preprocessing"
.SH NAME
preprocessing \- data matrix pre-processing before run data analysis
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIpreprocessing(\fBx\fR as <generic> PeakSet, 
\fBsampleinfo\fR as any = \fB<NULL>\fR, 
\fBimpute\fR as <integer> MissingValueMethod = [HalfMin], 
\fBnormalize\fR as <integer> NormalizationMethod = [TotalIonCount], 
\fBbatch\fR as <integer> BatchCorrectionMethod = [None], 
\fBknn\fR as integer = 5, 
\fBmax_missing_ratio\fR as double = 0.85, 
\fBpca\fR as integer = 5, 
\fBpca_eps\fR as double = 1E-08, 
\fBpqn\fR as any = ["median","mean"], 
\fBloess_span\fR as double = 0.75, 
\fBloess_degree\fR as integer = 2, 
\fBcombat_parametric\fR as boolean = TRUE, 
\fBsvr_c\fR as double = 1, 
\fBsvr_eps\fR as double = 0.1, 
\fBsvr_gamma\fR as double = 0.1, 
\fBsvr_learn_rate\fR as double = 0.01, 
\fBiteration\fR as integer = 1000, 
[\fB<Environment>\fR]);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
data matrix pre-processing before run data analysis
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBx\fB \fR\- the lcms expression data matrix. 
.PP
.PP
\fBsampleinfo\fB \fR\- sample metadata for run batch correction and normalization. 
.PP
.PP
\fBimpute\fB \fR\- Determines the algorithm used to fill in missing values in the expression matrix. 
 Common methods include HalfMin (replacing with half of the minimum positive value of the feature), 
 KNN, PCA, etc. The choice of method impacts downstream statistical sensitivity and variance.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBnormalize\fB \fR\- Specifies the algorithm used to adjust for systematic variations in total signal intensity 
 across samples, making them comparable. Options typically include TotalIonCount (TIC), PQN, 
 or internal standard normalization.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBbatch\fB \fR\- Specifies the algorithm used to remove non-biological systematic variation (batch effects) 
 between different analytical runs, ensuring that observed differences are biological rather than technical.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBknn\fB \fR\- In K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) imputation, missing values are estimated by averaging the 
 values of the K most similar samples (based on Euclidean distance or other metrics). A smaller K 
 may introduce noise, while a larger K may oversmooth local variations.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBmax_missing_ratio\fB \fR\- Features (metabolites) with extremely high missing rates provide little reliable information 
 and can severely distort imputation. This sets the threshold (0.0 to 1.0) for removing such features 
 before downstream analysis to ensure statistical robustness.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBpca\fB \fR\- Probabilistic PCA or NIPALS-based PCA imputation reconstructs missing values using the 
 specified number of principal components. This determines the dimensionality of the subspace 
 used to capture the variance in the data for accurate estimation.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBpca_eps\fB \fR\- Defines the threshold for the change in estimated values between iterations. The algorithm 
 stops when the change falls below this tolerance, indicating that the principal components have 
 successfully converged.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBpqn\fB \fR\- Probabilistic Quotient Normalization (PQN) requires a reference spectrum to calculate 
 normalization quotients. This parameter determines whether the median or mean spectrum across 
 all samples (or QC samples) is used as that reference. The reference sample selection method for PQN normalization: "median" or "mean".. 
.PP
.PP
\fBloess_span\fB \fR\- Local Polynomial Regression (LOESS/LOWESS) span controls the proportion of data points 
 used for each local fit. A larger span produces smoother curves (higher bias, lower variance), 
 while a smaller span captures more local signal drift (lower bias, higher variance).. 
.PP
.PP
\fBloess_degree\fB \fR\- Defines the degree of the polynomial fitted locally by LOESS. Typically set to 1 (linear) 
 or 2 (quadratic). A degree of 2 is common as it captures curvilinear trends in instrumental 
 signal drift across injection order.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBcombat_parametric\fB \fR\- In the ComBat algorithm, parametric empirical Bayes assumes batch effect parameters follow 
 a normal distribution, providing more robust shrinkage estimates, especially for small sample sizes. 
 Non-parametric (False) uses a non-parametric prior, which can be better if the normality assumption 
 is severely violated.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBsvr_c\fB \fR\- In Support Vector Regression (SVR), C determines the trade-off between model flatness and 
 tolerance for deviations larger than epsilon. A larger C penalizes errors more heavily, leading to 
 a more complex model that fits the training data closely.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBsvr_eps\fB \fR\- Defines the epsilon-tube within which no penalty is associated with predicted errors. 
 Errors within this margin are ignored, which helps in creating a sparse model and smoothing 
 out minor noise when modeling signal drift.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBsvr_gamma\fB \fR\- Controls the influence of a single training example in the Radial Basis Function (RBF) kernel. 
 A larger gamma means a narrower Gaussian function, leading to a more complex, tighter fit to the 
 training data (potential overfitting), while a smaller gamma yields a broader, smoother fit.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBsvr_learn_rate\fB \fR\- Determines the step size at each iteration while moving toward a minimum of the loss function 
 in gradient-based SVR optimization. A learning rate that is too large may overshoot the minimum, 
 while one that is too small may lead to extremely slow convergence.. 
.PP
.PP
\fBiteration\fB \fR\- 
 Caps the number of iterations for the SVR optimization solver (e.g., Sequential Minimal Optimization). 
 Prevents the algorithm from running indefinitely on non-converging datasets.
 or The Nonlinear Iterative Partial Least Squares (NIPALS) algorithm iteratively computes 
 principal components. This parameter sets an upper bound on iterations to prevent infinite loops 
 if the algorithm fails to converge.
. 
.PP
.PP
\fBenv\fB \fR\- -. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
the normalized expression data matrix. also with two attribute tagged:
 
 1. \fBresult\fR is the raw clr object of the pre-processing @\fBT:BioNovoGene.Analytical.MassSpectrometry.Math.LCMS.Preprocessing.PreprocessingResult\fR inside mzkit
 2. \fBopts\fR is the parameter @\fBT:BioNovoGene.Analytical.MassSpectrometry.Math.LCMS.Preprocessing.PreprocessingOptions\fR that input this function
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
math
.SH FILES
.PP
mz_quantify.dll
.PP
